DOCS-10575-DDR (#29293)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/agent/guide/datadog-disaster-recovery.md

**Note:** If any of your sites is in a region other than the `US1` region, you would need to specify the <SITE> parameter.

``` shell
# Run this command to get the Public ID for your DDR site. 
curl -X GET "https://api.<SITE>.datadoghq.com/api/v1/org/<PUBLIC-ID>" \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "DD-API-KEY: ${DDR_DD_API_KEY}" \
-H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${DDR_DD_APP_KEY}"

# Run this command to get the Public ID for your primary site. 
curl -X GET "https://api.<SITE>.datadoghq.com/api/v1/org/<PUBLIC-ID>" \
-H "Accept: application/json" \
-H "DD-API-KEY: ${PRIMARY_DD_API_KEY}" \
-H "DD-APPLICATION-KEY: ${PRIMARY_DD_APP_KEY}"
```
{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title=" 4. Link the DDR org to the primary org" level="h5" %}}
After the Datadog team has completed the configuration of the designated orgs and you have confirmed the public IDs for your orgs, you can now link them. For security reasons, Datadog is unable to link the orgs on your behalf. 

To link your primary and DDR orgs, run these commands:

```shell
export DDR_DD_API_KEY=<>
export DDR_DD_APP_KEY= 

> export DDR_DD_API_URL=https://api.datadoghq.com\

Reviewer: These need to be `PRIMARY_` not `DDR_`.
The URL shouldn't have a back slash at the end.
The URL should be api site of their primary org

export DDR_ORG_ID=<DDR_ORG_PUBLIC_ID>
export PRIMARY_ORG_ID=<PRIMARY_ORG_PUBLIC_ID>
export USER_EMAIL=<USER_EMAIL>

> export CONNECTION='{"data":{"id":"'${DDR_ORG_ID}'","type":"hamr_org_connections","attributes":{"TargetOrgUuid":"'${PRIMARY_ORG_ID}'","HamrStatus":1,"ModifiedBy":"'${USER_EMAIL}'","IsPrimary":true}}}'

Reviewer: This is slightly simpler and does the same thing:
```
export CONNECTION='{"data":{"id":"'${PRIMARY_ORG_ID}'","type":"hamr_org_connections","attributes":{"TargetOrgUuid":"'${DDR_ORG_ID}'","HamrStatus":1,"ModifiedBy":"'${USER_EMAIL}'"}}}'
```

curl -v -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 
"dd-api-key:${CRDR_DD_API_KEY}" -H 

> "dd-application-key:${CRDR_DD_APP_KEY}" --data "${CONNECTION}" --request POST ${CRDR_DD_API_URL}/api/v2/hamr

Reviewer: Change from `CRDR_` to `DDR_`

{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title=" 2. Contact Datadog to share your new organization" level="h5" %}}
Share your organization name with your Datadog contact(`IS THIS THE CSM`?) and they will configure your new organization to be your secondary failover organization.<br><br>
**Note**: This organization will appear in your Datadog billing hierarchy, but all usage and cost associated will _not_ be billed during the private beta.
{{% /collapse-content %}} <br>

<!------GROUP 2------------------------------------------------------------->
#### when Datadog confirms your new organization as your secondary failover organization
{{% collapse-content title=" 3. Confirm the public IDs of your orgs" level="h5" %}}
Once the Datadog team has completed the configuration of the designated orgs, they will share with you the public IDs of the primary org and the DDR org. You can confirm these IDs using the cURL commands from the Datadog [public API endpoint][8]:  

**Note:** If any of your sites is in a region other than the `US1` region, you would need to specify the <SITE> parameter.

``` shell
# Run this command to get the Public ID for your primary site. 

> curl -X GET "https://api.<SITE>.datadoghq.com/api/v1/org/<PUBLIC-ID>" \

Reviewer: Either the comment or the URL needs to change. The URL is using the public id, so it can't be used to _get_ the public id. It can be used to _verify_ the public id. Or they can use the list endpoint `/api/v1/org` (without the public id at the end of it) to get a list of all orgs that will include the public ids

{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title=" 10. Update your Datadog Agent configuration" level="h5" %}}
Update your Datadog Agents to version **7.54 or higher**. This version comes with a new configuration for Disaster Recovery. 

Configure your Datadog Agent's `datadog.yaml` configuration file as shown in the example below and restart the Agent.

```shell 
multi_region_failover:
  enabled: true
  failover_metrics: false
  failover_logs: false
  failover_traces: false
  site:<DDR_SITE>  # For example "site: us5.datadoghq.com" for a US5 site
  api_key:<DDR_SITE_API_KEY>
```
During the preview, we recommend having `failover_metrics`, `failover_logs` and `failover_traces` set to **false** when in passive phases. 

Your Datadog contact will work with you on scheduling dedicated time windows for failover testing to measure performance and Recovery Time Objective(RTO).
{{% /collapse-content %}} <br>

<!-------GROUP 4------------------------------------------------------------->
#### when you are ready to test the failover process

> {{% collapse-content title=" 11. Activate and test DDR failover" level="h5" %}}

Reviewer: In general we need to convey the following points: 

- Integrations only run in one Datacenter at a time. 
  - Integrations normally run only in the Primary data center.
  - During an integration failover, integrations will run only in the Secondary data center.
  - This is important during testing as integration telemetry will be spread over both organizations.
  - Cancelling a failover returns integrations to running in the Primary data center.  
- Integrations must be configured in both Primary and Secondary Organizations
- Failing over integrations is a separate and distinct action available on the disaster recovery landing page in the Secondary region.

Those 3 points should cover it.

---
title: Datadog Disater Recovery
private: true
further_reading:
- link: "agent/remote_config/?tab=configurationyamlfile"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Remote Configuration"
- link: "/getting_started/site/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Getting Started with Datadog Sites"
---

{{< callout url="https://www.datadoghq.com/product-preview/datadog-disaster-recovery/" d-toggle="modal" d_target="#signupModal" custom_class="sign-up-trigger" >}}

> Datadog Disaster Recovery is currently in Preview, but you can easily request access! Use this form to submit your request.

Author: ```suggestion
Datadog Disaster Recovery is in Preview, but you can request access! Use this form to submit your request.
```

| US5     | `https://us5.datadoghq.com` | `us5.datadoghq.com` | US       |
| EU1     | `https://app.datadoghq.eu`  | `datadoghq.eu`      | EU (Germany) |
| AP1     | `https://ap1.datadoghq.com` | `ap1.datadoghq.com` | Japan |

For example, if you are hosted in [US1](https://app.datadoghq.com), you may choose to select another Datadog site to ensure observability continuity in the event of a regional disaster. All Datadog sites are geographically separated.

Contact your [Customer Success Manager](mailto:success@datadoghq.com) or [Datadog Support](https://www.datadoghq.com/support/) to help you select the secondary Datadog site and configure your new organization to be your secondary failover organization.

Note that if you're also sending telemetry to Datadog using cloud provider integrations, you'll need to add your cloud provider accounts in the secondary org. 

Datadog will not use cloud providers to receive telemetry data while the secondary site is passive.

**Note**: Datadog can set this up for you if you'd prefer. 
{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title=" 2. Contact Datadog to share your new organization" level="h5" %}}

> Share your organization name with your Datadog [Customer Success Manager](mailto:success@datadoghq.com) and they will configure your new organization to be your secondary failover organization.<br><br>

Author: ```suggestion
Share your organization name with your Datadog [Customer Success Manager](mailto:success@datadoghq.com) so they can configure your new organization to be your secondary failover organization.<br><br>
```

DDR also allows you to periodically conduct disaster recovery drills to not only test your ability to recover from outage events but to also meet your business and regulatory compliance needs.

## Prerequisites 
Datadog Agents versions **7.54 or above** is required for Datadog Disaster Recovery. 

#### Supported telemetry types and products
The Agent-based failover description provided on this page supports failover of metrics, traces, and logs telemetry types. It also supports Datadog Infrastructure Monitoring, APM, and Logs products.

<div class="alert alert-info">
Datadog is continuously evaluating customer requests to support DDR for additional products. Contact the [Disaster Recovery team](mailto:disaster-recovery@datadoghq.com) to learn about upcoming capabilities and your specific needs if they are not covered above.
</div>

## Setup 

> To enable Datadog Disaster Recovery, follow the relevant steps for when:
> 
> 1. [you are ready to configure Datadog Disaster Recovery](#when-you-are-ready-to-configure-datadog-disaster-recovery)
> 2. [Datadog confirms your new organization as your secondary failover organization](#when-datadog-confirms-your-new-organization-as-your-secondary-failover-organization)
> 3. [you have linked the DDR org to your primary org](#when-you-have-linked-the-ddr-org-to-your-primary-org)
> 4. [you are ready to test the failover process](#when-you-are-ready-to-test-the-failover-process)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To enable Datadog Disaster Recovery:

1. [Configure Datadog Disaster Recovery](#when-you-are-ready-to-configure-datadog-disaster-recovery)
2. [Confirm and link your organizations](#when-datadog-confirms-your-new-organization-as-your-secondary-failover-organization)
3. [Configure your organization](#when-you-have-linked-the-ddr-org-to-your-primary-org)
4. [Test the failover process](#when-you-are-ready-to-test-the-failover-process)
```
☝🏻 The problem with framing procedures around states of readiness or in terms of previous steps is that it's easy to lose sight of what the steps the user is doing _now_ is helping them accomplish. I think it's a lot more helpful to a user when you can frame steps in terms of what the steps allow them to achieve, rather than something they've already done. Additionally, when you do that, it's a good reminder to re-examine how you've grouped steps together, and see if they make sense (there are lots of steps in section 3, for example, but the heading doesn't currently really indicate what section 3 really represents as a concept).

If an analogy might help, imagine you're following a recipe with headings that say this:
1. When you're ready to make the pie
2. After you've collected your ingredients
3. Once you're ready to make the filling
4. After you've made the filling
5. Once your pie is ready to bake

Instead of this:
1. Gather ingredients
2. Make the crust
3. Cook the filling
6. Assemble the pie
7. Bake the pie

The second list is focused on what you accomplish in each step, and if you're looking for a specific part of the procedure, I think it's a lot easier to orient yourself based on what you want to do (for example, if you're like, "I have a question about making the crust," the steps in the first example are harder to navigate), rather than a state that you're in (especially if you have to answer a question - for example, how do you know if you're ready to do something? You probably can't tell from the headings). It's a subtle difference, but I think it makes docs significantly more usable.

I've taken a small stab at renaming them to give you an example of how I would do it, but of course you know the procedure far better than I do, so don't feel obligated to use them at all 🙂 I'd also capitalize all of the headings, think about your header levels to ensure that you're not skipping any (for example, H2 -> H4 without an H3 in the middle, and maybe think about the number of clicks it would take for a user to get through the entire procedure. 11 drawers to open might feel like a bit much! But I'll happily leave that up to you and any conversations you've had with your product team to decide.

#### when you are ready to configure Datadog Disaster Recovery: 

> {{% collapse-content title=" 1. Create your secondary Datadog organization" level="h5" %}}

Reviewer 2: I notice that "secondary" and "DDR" seem to be kind of interchangeable throughout this topic, which feels a bit confusing. Can you pick one and stick with it so your user doesn't have to make the equivalency in their head?

Identify which site your primary organization is on by matching your Datadog website URL to the [`SITE URL`][4] in the table. Then, select a secondary site for your DDR organization.

{{< img src="getting_started/site/site.png" alt="The site URL in your browser tab" style="width:40%" >}}

| Site    | Site URL                    | Site Parameter      | Location |
|---------|-----------------------------|---------------------|----------|
| US1     | `https://app.datadoghq.com` | `datadoghq.com`     | US       |
| US3     | `https://us3.datadoghq.com` | `us3.datadoghq.com` | US       |
| US5     | `https://us5.datadoghq.com` | `us5.datadoghq.com` | US       |
| EU1     | `https://app.datadoghq.eu`  | `datadoghq.eu`      | EU (Germany) |

> | AP1     | `https://ap1.datadoghq.com` | `ap1.datadoghq.com` | Japan |

Reviewer 2: It looks like this content is more or less copied over from another topic. I would consider linking to the other topic instead of reproducing it here. (But Janine, you just talked about making people click too many things! I know, sometimes it's inevitable, though.) The reason for this would be maintenance - as we add more regions, we also have to update lists like this, and the more places the content exists in the docs, the more places we have to remember to update. In a docset as huge as ours, that can introduce some error!

Instead of copying roughly the same Markdown, I would either add a link, or maybe create a [reusable shortcode](https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/docs4docs/pages/1182958054/Markdown+Shortcode+Reference#Reusing-a-passage-(not-an-entire-page)) for the content if it's really important to have in both places. In this case, I think the former should do it, though!

For example, if you are hosted in [US1](https://app.datadoghq.com), you may choose to select another Datadog site to ensure observability continuity in the event of a regional disaster. All Datadog sites are geographically separated.

Contact your [Customer Success Manager](mailto:success@datadoghq.com) or [Datadog Support](https://www.datadoghq.com/support/) to help you select the secondary Datadog site and configure your new organization to be your secondary failover organization.

If you're also sending telemetry to Datadog using cloud provider integrations, you must add your cloud provider accounts in the secondary org. 

Datadog does not use cloud providers to receive telemetry data while the secondary site is passive.

> **Note**: Datadog can set this up for you if you'd prefer. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe put this note higher? I would prefer to know my options before wrapping my head around something I'd assume I have to do myself, and might be frustrated if I get to the end and am like "wait, I could have asked for help this entire time?"

{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title=" 2. Contact Datadog to share your new organization" level="h5" %}}

> Share your organization name with your Datadog [Customer Success Manager](mailto:success@datadoghq.com) so they can configure your new organization to be your secondary failover organization.<br><br>

Reviewer 2: This step seems very similar to "Contact your [Customer Success Manager](mailto:success@datadoghq.com) or [Datadog Support](https://www.datadoghq.com/support/) to help you select the secondary Datadog site and configure your new organization to be your secondary failover organization" in the previous drawer. Does this need to be separate?

> **Note**: This organization appears in your Datadog billing hierarchy, but all usage and cost associated is _not_  billed during the private beta.

Reviewer 2: The top of the page says it's in Preview, but this says it's in private beta - are we using both terms for a reason?

{{% /collapse-content %}} <br>

#### when Datadog confirms your new organization as your secondary failover organization
{{% collapse-content title=" 3. Confirm the public IDs of your orgs" level="h5" %}}
After the Datadog team has completed the configuration of the designated orgs, Datadog will share with you the public IDs of the primary org and the DDR org. You can verify these IDs using the cURL commands from the Datadog [public API endpoint][8]:  

``` shell

> # Run this command to verify the Public ID for your primary site replacing the `<DD-SITE-PARAMETER>` with the correct value. 

Reviewer 2: Is there a reason we refer to primary and DDR `orgs` above, but `sites` in these code samples?

Also, I'm not 100% on how necessary these steps are. Is this to check to ensure the IDs Support sent are correct...? If this isn't necessary, I'd just link to the API page with these and say that users can test them if they want to, and save them some work if they feel confident in the IDs they received.

export DDR_ORG_ID=<DDR_ORG_PUBLIC_ID>
export PRIMARY_ORG_ID=<PRIMARY_ORG_PUBLIC_ID>
export USER_EMAIL=<USER_EMAIL>
export CONNECTION='{"data":{"id":"'${PRIMARY_ORG_ID}'","type":"hamr_org_connections","attributes":{"TargetOrgUuid":"'${DDR_ORG_ID}'","HamrStatus":1,"ModifiedBy":"'${USER_EMAIL}'", "IsPrimary":true}}}'

curl -v -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 
"dd-api-key:${PRIMARY_DD_API_KEY}" -H 
"dd-application-key:${PRIMARY_DD_APP_KEY}" --data "${CONNECTION}" --request POST ${PRIMARY_DD_API_URL}/api/v2/hamr
```
{{% /collapse-content %}} <br>

#### when you have linked the DDR org to your primary org
{{% collapse-content title=" 5. Create your Datadog API and App key for syncing" level="h5" %}}
At the secondary Datadog site, create a set of `API key` **and** `App key`. You will use these keys in _steps 7_ to copy dashboards and monitors between Datadog sites. 

<div class="alert alert-info">
For your Agents, Datadog can copy API key signatures to the secondary backup account for you to prevent you from maintaining another set of API keys for your Agent. Contact your [Customer Success Manager](mailto:success@datadoghq.com) for any questions regarding this.

> </div>

Reviewer 2: See if you can edit this a bit. Take a look at it in staging, and maybe try reading it out loud. There's some awkward phrasing here that I think we can polish a bit, and there's another link that needs to be in HTML.

Additionally, what if a user doesn't know how to create API/app keys? They would have needed it in step 3, theoretically, so it's odd to mention creating them now. Maybe think about where it would be useful to give them that info if they weren't familiar with the Datadog API already.

Lastly, instead of italicizing the step number, you can [link to collapsibles](https://datadoghq.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/docs4docs/pages/1182958054/Markdown+Shortcode+Reference#Expand-and-collapse-content) by ID now!

{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title=" 6. Configure Single Sign On for the Datadog App" level="h5" %}}

> Go to your [Organization Settings][1] to configure SAML or Google Login for your users. 

Reviewer 2: How? Can you link to another doc here?

> **Single Sign On (SSO) is highly recommended** to enable all your users to be able to seamlessly login to your Disater Recovery organization during an outage. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Datadog recommends using Single Sign On (SSO)** to enable all your users to seamlessly login to your Disaster Recovery organization during an outage. 
```

> You must invite your users to your Disaster Recovery organization and give them appropriate roles and permissions. Alternatively, to streamline this operation you can use [Just-in-Time provisioning with SAML][2].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must invite your users to your Disaster Recovery organization and give them appropriate roles and permissions. Alternatively, to streamline this operation, you can use [Just-in-Time provisioning with SAML][2].
```
What are "appropriate roles and permissions," and how would a user know how to provision them? What's JIT provisioning an alternative to?

{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title=" 7. Set up Resources syncing and scheduler" level="h5" %}}

> Datadog provides a tool called [Datadog sync-cli][3] to copy your dashboards, monitors and other configurations from your primary organization to your secondary organization. You can determine the frequency and timing of syncing based on your business requirements. Regular syncing is essential to ensure that your secondary organization is up-to-date in the event of a disaster. We recommend performing this operation on a daily basis. For information on setting up and running the backup process, see the [datadog-sync-cli README][5]. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Datadog provides a tool called [datadog sync-cli][3] to copy your dashboards, monitors, and other configurations from your primary organization to your secondary organization. Regular syncing is essential to ensure that your secondary organization is up-to-date in the event of a disaster. Datadog recommends performing this operation on a daily basis; you can determine the frequency and timing of syncing based on your business requirements. For information on setting up and running the backup process, see the [datadog-sync-cli README][5]. 
```

Sync-cli is primarily intended for unidirectional copying and updating resources from your primary org to your secondary org. Resources copied to the secondary organization can be edited, but any new syncing will override changes that differ from the source in the primary organization.

> Each item can be added to the sync scope using the sync-cli configuration available in the documentation. Here's an example of a configuration file for syncing specific dashboards and monitors using name and tag filtering from an `EU` site to a `US5` site.

Reviewer 2: See if you can do an edit in this section to remove passive voice and to add in some clarity. That way, you can make the actions your user is empowered to do themselves even clearer. Additionally, I think the part about syncing overriding changes could benefit from some simpler phrasing.

```shell 
destination_api_url="https://api.us5.datadoghq.com"
destination_api_key="<US5_API_KEY>"
destination_app_key="<US5_APP_KEY>"
source_api_key="<EU_API_KEY>"
source_app_key="<EU_APP_KEY>"
source_api_url="https://api.datadoghq.eu"
filter=["Type=Dashboards;Name=title","Type=Monitors;Name=tags;Value=sync:true"]

# Make sure to increase the retry timeout to cope with the rate limit
http_client_retry_timeout=600
```

> Here's an example of a Sync-cli commands for syncing log configurations:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's an example of a sync-cli command for syncing log configurations:
```

```shell
datadog-sync import –config config –resources users,roles,logs_pipelines,logs_pipelines_order,logs_indexes,logs_indexes_order,logs_metrics,logs_restriction_queries

# remember to set the –cleanup=Force option
datadog-sync sync –config config –resources users,roles,logs_pipelines,logs_pipelines_order,logs_indexes,logs_indexes_order,logs_metrics,logs_restriction_queries –cleanup=Force
```

<div class="alert alert-warning"> <strong>Sync-cli Limitation </strong><br><br>

**Log Standard Attributes:** Sync-cli is regularly being updated with new resources. Currently, syncing Log standard attributes is not supported for private beta. If you use standard attributes with your log pipelines and are remapping your logs, attributes are a dependency that you need to manually re-configure in your secondary org. You can refer to the Datadog [standard attribute documentation][6] for support.

> </div>

Reviewer 2: This looks a little funky in staging with the different font sizes, and I find the limitation hard to understand. Can you simplify it a bit, and maybe see if there's a better way to do the styling?

I think the line breaks are what make the Markdown work inside the HTML `<div>` tags, actually, which is interesting 🤔

{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title=" 8. Verify availability at the secondary site" level="h5" %}}

> Verify that your secondary org is accessible and that your Dashboards and Monitors are copied from your primary org to your secondary org.

Reviewer 2: How would someone verify this? What are they looking for? If they're lost, how can you help them?

Additionally, this is so short, I don't think it's worth a whole click to open it in a drawer 😛

{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title=" 9. Enable Remote Configuration [**RECOMMENDED]" level="h5" %}}
[Remote configuration (RC)][7] is a Datadog capability that allows you to remotely configure and change the behavior of Datadog Agents deployed in your infrastructure. Remote Configuration is strongly recommended for a more seamless failover control. Alternatively, you can configure your Agents manually or using configuration management tools like Puppet, Ansible, Chef, etc. 

Remote configuration will be turned on by default on your new organization and you can create new API keys that are RC-enabled by default for use with your Agent. See the documentation for [Remote configuration][7] for more information.

> {{% /collapse-content %}}

Reviewer 2: I don't understand the action item here - Datadog recommends that we enable Remote Configuration, but it's enabled by default? What are we trying to get people to understand or do in this section?

Also, be careful about consistent capitalization 🙂 If you click through to the RC doc, you'll see that "Configuration" is always capitalized there, but it's not consistently capitalized here.

{{% collapse-content title=" 10. Update your Datadog Agent version and configuration" level="h5" %}}

> Update your Datadog Agents to version **7.54 or higher**. This version comes with a new configuration for Disaster Recovery which enables Datadog Agents to also send telemetry to the configured secondary Datadog site after DDR failover is activated. The Agent dual ships telemetry to support customers conducting periodic disaster recovery exercises/drills. 

Reviewer 2: The Agent version was mentioned as a prerequisite. Why would we provide instructions to upgrade it so late in the process? Could we just link out to instructions instead, at a time that's more appropriate than step 10?

Author: I see the confusion there. The purpose of this step is to change the agent configuration in the `datadog.yaml` file. The configuration options required here are only available in the Agent v7.54+.

> After updating your Agent, configure your Datadog Agent's `datadog.yaml` configuration file as shown in the example below and restart the Agent.

Reviewer 2: Is the rest of this step something you have to do even if your Agent is up to date? I'm confused about what this accomplishes.

Author: I made some changes to this section, let me know if this makes more sense.

```shell
multi_region_failover:
  enabled: true
  failover_metrics: false
  failover_logs: false
  failover_traces: false
  site: <DDR_SITE>  # For example "site: us5.datadoghq.com" for a US5 site
  api_key: <DDR_SITE_API_KEY>
```

Setting the **enabled** field to `true` enables the Agent to ship Agent metadata to the secondary Datadog site so you can view Agents and your Infra Hosts in the secondary site. Note that while you can see your Agents and Infra Hosts at the secondary site, you will not receive telemetry until DDR failover is activated.

During the preview, we recommend having `failover_metrics`, `failover_logs` and `failover_traces` set to **false** when in passive phases. 

> Your Datadog contact will work with you on scheduling dedicated time windows for failover testing to measure performance and Recovery Time Objective(RTO).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Your Datadog contact will work with you on scheduling dedicated time windows for failover testing to measure performance and Recovery Time Objective (RTO).
```

{{% /collapse-content %}} <br>

#### when you are ready to test the failover process
{{% collapse-content title=" 11. Activate and test DDR failover" level="h5" %}}

> There are several methods that can be used for activating/testing the DDR failover. 

Reviewer 2: I would edit this section for passive voice!

**Agent in non-containerized environments**

For Agent deployments in non-containerized environments, use the below Agent CLI commands:

```shell
agent config set multi_region_failover.failover_metrics true
agent config set multi_region_failover.failover_logs true
agent config set multi_region_failover.failover_traces true
```

**Agent in containerized environments**

If you are running the Agent in a containerized environment like Kubernetes, the Agent command-line tool can still be used, but it needs to be invoked on the container running the Agent. 

> Below is an example of using `kubectl` to fail over metrics and logs for a Datadog Agent pod deployed via either the official Helm chart or Datadog Operator. The `<POD_NAME>` should be replaced with the name of the Agent pod:

Reviewer 2: It looks like there are several options here that you can choose from, but that's a bit hard to see. You can use formatting to make that easier to understand! I would use bullet points for all of these and add an intro to say that you can pick one of three (I think?) methods.

```shell
kubectl exec <POD_NAME> -c agent -- agent config set multi_region_failover.failover_metrics true
kubectl exec <POD_NAME> -c agent -- agent config set multi_region_failover.failover_logs true
kubectl exec <POD_NAME> -c agent -- agent config set multi_region_failover.failover_traces true
```

Alternatively, you can specify the below settings in the main Agent configuration file (`datadog.yaml`) and restart the Datadog Agent for the changes to apply:

```shell
multi_region_failover:
  enabled: true
  failover_metrics: true
  failover_logs: true
  failover_traces: true
  site: NEW_ORG_SITE
  api_key: NEW_SITE_API_KEY
```

> Similar changes can also be made with either the official Helm chart or Datadog Operator if specifying a custom configuration, otherwise the settings can be passed as environment variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can make similar changes with either the official Helm chart or Datadog Operator if you need to specify a custom configuration. Otherwise, you can pass the settings as environment variables:
```

```shell
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_ENABLED=true
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_METRICS=true
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_LOGS=true
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_TRACES=true
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_SITE=ADD_NEW_ORG_SITE
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_API_KEY=ADD_NEW_SITE_API_KEY
```

**Cloud integrations failover**

> 1. Integrations must be configured in both Primary and Secondary organizations.
> 
> 2. Integrations only run in one Datacenter at a time. Keep in mind that:
>   - Integrations normally run only in the Primary data center.
>   - During an integration failover, integrations will run only in the Secondary data center.
>   - During testing, integration telemetry will be spread over both organizations.
>   - Cancelling a failover returns integrations to running in the Primary data center.
> 
> 3. Failing over integrations is a separate and distinct action available on the disaster recovery landing page in the secondary region.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Integrations must be configured in both primary and secondary organizations.
2. Integrations only run in onedDatacenter at a time. Keep in mind that:
   - Integrations normally run only in the primary data center.
   - During an integration failover, integrations run only in the secondary data center.
   - During testing, integration telemetry is be spread over both organizations.
   - Cancelling a failover returns integrations to running in the primary data center.
3. Failing over integrations is a separate and distinct action available on the disaster recovery landing page in the secondary region.
```
☝🏻 I fixed some whitespace that made the formatting look a little strange on in my local build. Additionally, I removed some inconsistent capitalization and removed some future tense.

It might be worth adding an intro sentence to this, because the sudden shift from Agent configuration actions to cloud integration information was a bit jarring. I wonder if these belong together?

{{% /collapse-content %}}<br>

> ## Further Reading

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Further reading
```

DDR also allows you to periodically conduct disaster recovery drills to not only test your ability to recover from outage events, but to also meet your business and regulatory compliance needs.

## Prerequisites 
Datadog Agent version **7.54 or above** is required for Datadog Disaster Recovery. 

### Supported telemetry types and products
The Agent-based failover description provided on this page supports failover of the following telemetry types and products:

|Supported telemetry |Supported products       |
|--------------------|-------------------------|
|Metrics             |Infrastructure Monitoring|
|Traces              |APM                      |
|Logs                |Logs                     |

<div class="alert alert-info">
Datadog is continuously evaluating customer requests to support DDR for additional products. Contact the <a href="mailto:disaster-recovery@datadoghq.com">Disaster Recovery team</a> to learn about upcoming capabilities and your specific needs if they are not covered above.
</div>
<br>

## Setup 
To enable Datadog Disaster Recovery:

1. [Configure Datadog Disaster Recovery](#configure-datadog-disaster-recovery)

> 2. [Confirm and link your organization](#confirm-and-link-your-organization)

Reviewer: Shouldn't be "Confirm and" any more.

3. [Configure your DDR organization](#configure-your-ddr-organization)
4. [Test the failover process](#test-the-failover-process)

### Configure Datadog Disaster Recovery
{{% collapse-content title=" 1. Create your DDR Datadog organization and share it with your Customer Success Manager" level="h5" %}}
<div class="alert alert-info">Datadog can set this up for you if you'd prefer.</div>

#### Create the DDR org
Identify which site your primary organization is on by matching your Datadog website URL to the [`SITE URL`][4] in the table. Then, select a secondary site for your DDR organization.

{{% agent/sites_no_fed %}}

For example, if you are hosted in [US1](https://app.datadoghq.com), you may choose to select another Datadog site to ensure observability continuity in the event of a regional disaster. All Datadog sites are geographically separated.

If you're also sending telemetry to Datadog using cloud provider integrations, you must add your cloud provider accounts in the DDR org. 

Datadog does not use cloud providers to receive telemetry data while the DDR site is passive.

#### Share the DDR org with your Customer Success Manager

> Share your organization name with your Datadog [Customer Success Manager](mailto:success@datadoghq.com) so they can configure your new organization to be your DDR failover organization. 

Reviewer: Should it be: "Share your **DDR** organization name" or "Share your **new** organization name"

#### Link the DDR org to the primary org

<div class="alert alert-warning"> For security reasons, Datadog is unable to link the orgs on your behalf. </div>

To link your DDR and primary orgs, run these commands replacing the placeholders for their values:

```shell
export PRIMARY_DD_API_KEY=<PRIMARY_ORG_API_KEY>
export PRIMARY_DD_APP_KEY=<PRIMARY_ORG_APP_KEY>
export PRIMARY_DD_API_URL=<PRIMARY_ORG_API_SITE>

export DDR_ORG_ID=<DDR_ORG_PUBLIC_ID>
export PRIMARY_ORG_ID=<PRIMARY_ORG_PUBLIC_ID>
export USER_EMAIL=<USER_EMAIL>
export CONNECTION='{"data":{"id":"'${PRIMARY_ORG_ID}'","type":"hamr_org_connections","attributes":{"TargetOrgUuid":"'${DDR_ORG_ID}'","HamrStatus":1,"ModifiedBy":"'${USER_EMAIL}'", "IsPrimary":true}}}'

curl -v -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 
"dd-api-key:${PRIMARY_DD_API_KEY}" -H 
"dd-application-key:${PRIMARY_DD_APP_KEY}" --data "${CONNECTION}" --request POST ${PRIMARY_DD_API_URL}/api/v2/hamr
```
{{% /collapse-content %}} <br>

### Configure your DDR organization
{{% collapse-content title=" 3. Create your Datadog API and App key for syncing" level="h5" %}}

> In DDR Datadog org, create a set of `API key` **and** `App key`. These are useful in [steps 5][id="using-sync-cli-tool"] to copy dashboards and monitors between Datadog sites. 

Reviewer: I think this might be useful in [step 6] now instead of [steps 5]

Author: Awesome catch! thank you!

After the Datadog team has set your DDR org, use the cURL commands from the Datadog [public API endpoint][8] to retrieve the public IDs of the primary and DDR org. 

To link your DDR and primary orgs, run these commands replacing the placeholders for their values:

<div class="alert alert-warning"> For security reasons, Datadog is unable to link the orgs on your behalf. </div>

```shell
export PRIMARY_DD_API_KEY=<PRIMARY_ORG_API_KEY>
export PRIMARY_DD_APP_KEY=<PRIMARY_ORG_APP_KEY>
export PRIMARY_DD_API_URL=<PRIMARY_ORG_API_SITE>

export DDR_ORG_ID=<DDR_ORG_PUBLIC_ID>
export PRIMARY_ORG_ID=<PRIMARY_ORG_PUBLIC_ID>
export USER_EMAIL=<USER_EMAIL>
export CONNECTION='{"data":{"id":"'${PRIMARY_ORG_ID}'","type":"hamr_org_connections","attributes":{"TargetOrgUuid":"'${DDR_ORG_ID}'","HamrStatus":1,"ModifiedBy":"'${USER_EMAIL}'", "IsPrimary":true}}}'

curl -v -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 
"dd-api-key:${PRIMARY_DD_API_KEY}" -H 
"dd-application-key:${PRIMARY_DD_APP_KEY}" --data "${CONNECTION}" --request POST ${PRIMARY_DD_API_URL}/api/v2/hamr
```
{{% /collapse-content %}}

<br>

<!-- ------------------------------- -->

### 2. Set up access, integrations, syncing, and agents

> {{% collapse-content title="Create your Datadog API and App key for syncing" level="h5" %}}

Reviewer 2: I just realized that the step where they create the keys and the step where they use them are kind of far away from each other. I don't know if they're in this order for a specific reason, but I would suggest putting them next to each other if you can:
- It can be reassuring to a user to use something right after they make it, so the process makes intuitive sense
- Putting the steps close to each other makes it more likely that they still have the keys open in the window or copied to their clipboard, which makes it more convenient

In DDR Datadog org, create a set of `API key` **and** `App key`. These are useful for copying dashboards and monitors between Datadog sites. 

<div class="alert alert-info">

> Datadog can help copy the API key signatures for your Agents to the DDR back-up account. Contact your <a href="mailto:success@datadoghq.com">Customer Success Manager</a> for any questions regarding this.

Author: @janine-c I see! Where might be better in the page to move this?

</div>
{{% /collapse-content %}}

> {{% collapse-content title="Configure Single Sign On for the Datadog App" level="h5" %}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{% collapse-content title="Configure Single Sign On for the DDR org" level="h5" %}}
```
The wording made me think you were talking about the mobile app at first. But I think this is important on the org level, rather than on the desktop app level?

Go to your [Organization Settings][1] to configure [SAML][9] or Google Login for your users. 

**Datadog recommends using Single Sign On (SSO)** to enable all your users to seamlessly login to your Disaster Recovery organization during an outage.

You must invite each of your users to your Disaster Recovery organization and give them appropriate roles and permissions. Alternatively, to streamline this operation, you can use [Just-in-Time provisioning with SAML][2].
{{% /collapse-content %}}

> {{% collapse-content title=" Set up your cloud integrations (AWS, Azure, Google Cloud)" level="h5" %}}

Reviewer 2: This section has some good information, but it lacks instructions on _how_ to set up cloud integrations, but the title of the section makes it feel like it should. If, say, a separate person is setting up the DDR org from the person who set up the original one, they might not have all of the context on the original setup. Maybe links to other places in the docs could help in this section?

> Your cloud integrations must be configured in both primary and DDR organizations. Because these integrations only run in one data center at a time, **the integrations must run only in the primary data center.**

Reviewer 2: Is there any more information on how to configure an integration in the DDR org without running it? I can see this potentially being a gotcha for people!

Author: @michael-richey This is a great point! How do they not run in both orgs but still be available for failover?

During testing, integration telemetry is spread over both organizations and cancelling a failover testing returns the integrations to running in the Primary data center.

> During an integration failover, integrations runs only in the DDR data center.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
During an integration failover, integrations run only in the DDR data center.
```

Reviewer 2: This section kind of has more information on testing failovers than the very last section on the page, about testing failovers. When in the process do you think users need this information? What do they need to know in this section?

Sometimes it helps to think of the progressive disclosure of information in terms of "just enough, just in time" - you're doing a good job of not overwhelming people with details here, which is great! I think what would elevate it from good to really great is thinking about what people need to know at specific points of this fairly long procedure.

{{% /collapse-content %}}

> {{% collapse-content title="Set up Resources syncing and scheduler" level="h5" id="using-sync-cli-tool" %}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{% collapse-content title="Set up resource syncing on a schedule" level="h5" id="using-sync-cli-tool" %}}
```
Just playing around here a bit to try to make wording easier to understand, in case someone thought, say, "Resources syncing" might be the name of a feature.

> Use Datadog's [datadog sync-cli][3] tool to copy your dashboards, monitors, and other configurations from your primary organization to your secondary organization. Regular syncing is essential to ensure that your secondary organization is up-to-date in the event of a disaster. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Use Datadog's [datadog-sync-cli][3] tool to copy your dashboards, monitors, and other configurations from your primary organization to your secondary organization. Regular syncing is essential to ensure that your secondary organization is up-to-date in the event of a disaster. 
```

Reviewer 2: The name we use for this tool seems to drop the `datadog-` later in the section, and I'm not sure why. To reduce cognitive load on users, it's usually a good idea to try to keep these things consistent, so users don't have to think about whether `datadog-sync-cli` and `sync-cli` are the same thing.

Reviewer 2: A classic "do as I say, not as I do" kind of situation in the docs - I've written many 😂

Use the sync-cli configuration available in the documentation to add each item to the sync scope. Here's an example of a configuration file for syncing specific dashboards and monitors using name and tag filtering from an `EU` site to a `US5` site.

```shell 
destination_api_url="https://api.us5.datadoghq.com"
destination_api_key="<US5_API_KEY>"
destination_app_key="<US5_APP_KEY>"
source_api_key="<EU_API_KEY>"
source_app_key="<EU_APP_KEY>"
source_api_url="https://api.datadoghq.eu"
filter=["Type=Dashboards;Name=title","Type=Monitors;Name=tags;Value=sync:true"]

# Make sure to increase the retry timeout to cope with the rate limit
http_client_retry_timeout=600
```

Here's an example of a sync-cli command for syncing log configurations:

```shell
datadog-sync import –config config –resources users,roles,logs_pipelines,logs_pipelines_order,logs_indexes,logs_indexes_order,logs_metrics,logs_restriction_queries

# remember to set the –cleanup=Force option
datadog-sync sync –config config –resources users,roles,logs_pipelines,logs_pipelines_order,logs_indexes,logs_indexes_order,logs_metrics,logs_restriction_queries –cleanup=Force
```

> <div class="alert alert-warning"> <strong>Sync-cli Limitation for Log Standard Attributes </strong><br>Sync-cli is regularly being updated with new resources. At this time, syncing Log standard attributes is not supported for private beta. If you use standard attributes with your log pipelines and are remapping your logs, attributes are a dependency that you need to manually re-configure in your DDR org. See the Datadog <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/log_configuration/attributes_naming_convention/#overview">standard attribute documentation</a> for support.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<div class="alert alert-warning"> <strong>Sync-cli limitation for log standard attributes </strong><br>Sync-cli is regularly being updated with new resources. At this time, syncing log standard attributes is not supported for private beta. If you use standard attributes with your log pipelines and are remapping your logs, attributes are a dependency that you need to manually re-configure in your DDR org. See the <a href="https://docs.datadoghq.com/logs/log_configuration/attributes_naming_convention/#overview">standard attribute documentation</a> for support.
```

</div>

#### Verify availability at the DDR site

> Verify that your DDR org is accessible and that your Dashboards and Monitors are copied from your primary org to your DDR org.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Verify that your DDR org is accessible and that your dashboards and monitors are copied from your primary org to your DDR org.
```

Update your Datadog Agent's `datadog.yaml` configuration file as shown in the example below and restart the Agent.

```shell
multi_region_failover:
  enabled: true
  failover_metrics: false
  failover_logs: false
  failover_apm: false
  site: <DDR_SITE>  # For example "site: us5.datadoghq.com" for a US5 site
  api_key: <DDR_SITE_API_KEY>
```

Setting the **enabled** field to `true` allows the Agent to ship metadata to the DDR Datadog site, so you can view Agents and your Infra Hosts in the DDR org. Although you can see Agents and Hosts appear in the DDR org, the system does not receive telemetry unless DDR failover is activated.

During the Preview period, Datadog recommends having `failover_metrics`, `failover_logs` and `failover_apm` set to **false** when in passive phases (when not in failover). 

Connect with your Datadog Customer Success Manager to schedule dedicated time windows for failover testing to measure performance and Recovery Time Objective (RTO).
{{% /collapse-content %}} <br>

<!-- ------------------------------- -->

> ### 3. Test	Run failover tests in various environments

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### 3. Test	run failover tests in various environments
```

kubectl exec <POD_NAME> -c agent -- agent config set multi_region_failover.failover_logs true
kubectl exec <POD_NAME> -c agent -- agent config set multi_region_failover.failover_apm true
```
<br>

 ##### Using the Agent configuration file
Alternatively, you can specify the below settings in the main Agent configuration file (`datadog.yaml`) and restart the Datadog Agent for the changes to apply:

```shell
multi_region_failover:
  enabled: true
  failover_metrics: true
  failover_logs: true
  failover_apm: true
  site: NEW_ORG_SITE
  api_key: NEW_SITE_API_KEY
```
<br>

 ##### Using the Helm chart or Datadog Operator

You can make similar changes with either the official Helm chart or Datadog Operator if you need to specify a custom configuration. Otherwise, you can pass the settings as environment variables:

```shell
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_ENABLED=true
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_FAILOVER_METRICS=true
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_FAILOVER_LOGS=true
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_FAILOVER_APM=true
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_SITE=ADD_NEW_ORG_SITE
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_API_KEY=ADD_NEW_SITE_API_KEY
```
{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

{{% /collapse-content %}}

> {{% collapse-content title="Activate and test DDR failover in cloud integrations" level="h5" %}}

Reviewer 2: This section doesn't contain information on how to activate and test cloud integrations, which makes it a little confusing. The verbs that indicate what a section contains are very important so users can figure out how the docs align with their objectives. Here, there's a blurb that talks about how failing over cloud integrations is separate in the DDR org, somehow...but I still don't understand what a user is supposed to do with that information if they want to activate and test the failover for their integrations. Do they _have_ to contact their CSM/support for help if they want to test it? If so, we should state that explicitly.

Reviewer 2: Yeah I think it could! Basically, the problem I'm trying to avoid here is making users think there's an action to carry out ("ooh, activate and test! I'll feel so much more secure in my approach once I've done that!") and then not give them clear instructions on that action. It looks like we're kind of hinting at something they can do on the disaster recovery landing page, but it's vague and I'm not sure what it really does. Some clarity here about what to expect and what to look for to indicate the test was a success would really help! Otherwise, users might _think_ they've successfully performed the test, but we don't want them to find out that they didn't during an incident!

Reviewer: I can walk either of you through this, but it's confusing and a little dangerous so maybe that's why we're trying to push them to talk to someone? Integrations need to be configured in both Orgs. Then there is literally a button on the disaster recovery landing page that acts as the Frankenstein switch mentioned above. When they hit that button integration telemetry stops going to R1 (that's the dangerous part they really need to understand) and starts going to R2.

> 
> ##### Cloud integrations failover

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Doesn't seem necessary to just have this one heading in the collapsible?

curl -v -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 
"dd-api-key:${PRIMARY_DD_API_KEY}" -H 
"dd-application-key:${PRIMARY_DD_APP_KEY}" --data "${CONNECTION}" --request POST ${PRIMARY_DD_API_URL}/api/v2/hamr
```
After linking your orgs, only the failover org displays this banner:

{{< img src="agent/guide/ddr/ddr-banner.png" alt="The DDR banner in the DDR org" >}}

{{% /collapse-content %}}

<br>

<!-- ------------------------------- -->

### 2. Set up access, integrations, syncing, and agents

{{% collapse-content title="Configure Single Sign On for the DDR org" level="h5" %}}
Go to the [Organization Settings][1] in your DDR org to configure [SAML][9] or Google Login for your users. 

**Datadog recommends using Single Sign On (SSO)** to enable all your users to seamlessly login to your Disaster Recovery org during an outage.

You must invite each of your users to your Disaster Recovery org and give them appropriate roles and permissions. Alternatively, to streamline this operation, you can use [Just-in-Time provisioning with SAML][2].
{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title=" Set up your cloud integrations (AWS, Azure, Google Cloud)" level="h5" %}}

> See the [AWS][10], [Azure][11], and [Google Cloud][12] integrations for setup steps. 
> 
> Your cloud integrations must be configured in both primary and DDR orgs. However, the integrations must only run in one data center at a time:
> - By default, the integrations must run only in the primary data center. 
> - When in failover, the integration must only run in the DDR org.

Author: ```suggestion
See the [AWS][10], [Azure][11], and [Google Cloud][12] integrations for setup steps. 

Your cloud integrations must be configured in both primary and DDR orgs. However, the integrations must only run in one org at a time:
- By default, the integrations must run only in the primary org. 
- When in failover, the integrations must only run in the DDR org.
```

<div class="alert alert-warning">
<strong>Note</strong>: Cloud Integrations can only run in either your primary or DDR Datadog site, but not both at the same time, so failing them over will cease Cloud Integration data in your primary site. <strong>During an integration failover, integrations run only in the DDR data center</strong>. When no longer in failover, disable the policy to return integration data collection to the primary org. 
</div>

[14]: https://app.datadoghq.com/fleet
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Manually" %}}

During a failover or failover exercises, update your Datadog Agent's `datadog.yaml` configuration file as shown in the example below and restart the Agent.

<div class="alert alert-warning">

- `enabled: true` allows the Agent to send {{< tooltip text="metadata" tooltip="Data about the Agent and the infrastructure host. For example, `host name`, `host tags`, `Agent version`. " >}} to the DDR Datadog site so you can view Agents and your Infra hosts in the DDR org. This allows you to see your  Agents and infrastructure hosts in the failover org. <br><br>

> - `failover_metrics`, `failover_logs`, and `failover_apm` are `false` by default. Setting these to `true` causes the Agent to start sending {{< tooltip text="telemetry" tooltip="Data that is sent to the Datadog platform. For example, `logs`, `metrics`, `traces`. " >}} to the failover site. 

Author: ```suggestion
- `failover_metrics`, `failover_logs`, and `failover_apm` are `false` by default. Setting these to `true` causes the Agent to start sending {{< tooltip text="telemetry" tooltip="Data that is sent to the Datadog platform. For example, `logs`, `metrics`, `traces`. " >}} to the DDR org. 
```

> </div>

Author: ```suggestion
```

```shell
multi_region_failover:
  enabled: true
  failover_metrics: false
  failover_logs: false
  failover_apm: false
  site: <DDR_SITE>  # For example "site: us5.datadoghq.com" for a US5 site
  api_key: <DDR_SITE_API_KEY>
```
 

**Note**: Telemetry (logs, metrics, and traces) are only sent to the failover site if DDR failover is activated. Failover is activated when `enabled`, `failover_metrics`, `failover_logs`, and `failover_apm` are set to `true`.

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}
{{% /collapse-content %}} <br>

### 3. Test	run failover tests in various environments
{{% collapse-content title="Activate and test DDR failover in Agent-based environments" level="h5" %}}

> To trigger a failover of your Agents, you can click on one of the policies in [Fleet Automation][14], and then click **Enable**. The status of each host updates as the failover occurs.

Author: ```suggestion
To trigger a failover of your Agents, you can click on one of the policies in [Fleet Automation][14] in your DDR org, and then click **Enable**. The status of each host updates as the failover occurs.
```

  failover_apm: true
  site: NEW_ORG_SITE
  api_key: NEW_SITE_API_KEY
```
<br>

 ##### Using the Helm chart or Datadog Operator

You can make similar changes with either the official Helm chart or Datadog Operator if you need to specify a custom configuration. Otherwise, you can pass the settings as environment variables:

```shell
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_ENABLED=true
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_FAILOVER_METRICS=true
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_FAILOVER_LOGS=true
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_FAILOVER_APM=true
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_SITE=ADD_NEW_ORG_SITE
DD_MULTI_REGION_FAILOVER_API_KEY=ADD_NEW_SITE_API_KEY
```
{{% /tab %}}

{{< /tabs >}}

{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title="Activate and test DDR failover in cloud integrations" level="h5" id="id-for-cloud" %}}

You can test failover for your cloud integrations from your DDR organization's landing page.

{{< img src="/agent/guide/ddr/ddr-failover-main-page.png" alt="Enable the failover policy in the DDR org" style="width:80%;" >}}

The failover landing page in the DDR org contains the status of your DDR org as well as the capability to failover Cloud Integrations. 

<div class="alert alert-warning">

> When no longer in failover, <strong>disable the policy</strong> to return integration data collection to the primary org. 

Author: The policy is created when using fleet automation. This section is directing them over a landing page that has the `failover policy` button. I've also changed this to read `disable the failover policy` to specify this.

{{% /collapse-content %}}

<br>

<!-- ------------------------------- -->

### 2. Set up access, integrations, syncing, and agents

{{% collapse-content title="Configure Single Sign On for the DDR org" level="h5" %}}
Go to the [Organization Settings][1] in your DDR org to configure [SAML][9] or Google Login for your users. 

**Datadog recommends using Single Sign On (SSO)** to enable all your users to seamlessly login to your Disaster Recovery org during an outage.

You must invite each of your users to your Disaster Recovery org and give them appropriate roles and permissions. Alternatively, to streamline this operation, you can use [Just-in-Time provisioning with SAML][2].
{{% /collapse-content %}}

{{% collapse-content title=" Set up your cloud integrations (AWS, Azure, Google Cloud)" level="h5" %}}

See the [AWS][10], [Azure][11], and [Google Cloud][12] integrations for setup steps. 

Your cloud integrations must be configured in both primary and DDR orgs. However, the integrations must only run in one data center at a time:
- By default, the integrations must run only in the primary data center. 
- When in failover, the integration must only run in the DDR org.

> See the [Cloud integrations failover](#3-testrun-failover-tests-in-various-environments) section for details on the cloud failover process. 

Author: TBH, I didn't know how to link the IDs. This is great to see the usage. Thanks!

To create a failover policy, click on **Create Failover Policy** and follow the prompt to scope the hosts and telemetry (metrics, logs, traces) that you are required to failover.

{{< img src="/agent/guide/ddr/ddr-fa-policy-scope.png" alt="Scope the hosts and telemetry required to failover" style="width:80%;" >}}

`<add steps 2 and 3 from the screenshot?>`

<div class="alert alert-warning">
<strong>Note</strong>: Cloud Integrations can only run in either your primary or secondary Datadog site, but not both at the same time, so failing them over will cease Cloud Integration data in your primary site. <strong>During an integration failover, integrations run only in the DDR data center</strong>. When no longer in failover, disable the policy to return integration data collection to the primary org. 
</div>

<!-- FLEET AUTOMATION END -->
[14]: https://app.datadoghq.com/fleet
{{% /tab %}}

{{% tab "Manually" %}}

Agent **v7.54+** has a new configuration for Disaster Recovery which enables Datadog Agents to also send telemetry to the configured DDR Datadog site after DDR failover is activated. 

> **This is disabled by default**, but can be enabled to support periodic disaster recovery exercises/drills. 

Author: @heyronhay I'm guessing this has to do with not duplicating data unnecessarily. Does this also have to do with billing (at least post-preview)?
